14: Block-Layout-Template Relationship
======================================

After spending some time learnin this relationship, you will understand how it
works. Witin a theme of base default layout, we have XML files. The system reads
the XML page and thus renders the tree and what needs to be displayed.

In magento, a block is a container for something. It can contain other blocks or
contents itself. Each block has:

- type: This is the factory method to define the type or group prefixx and a
  string that completes the block class name: On page.xml: it will be
  `Mage_Page_Block_Html`. The system knows what block to instantiate.
- name: reference a block and append content to the block. Just remember every
  block must have a name and type attribute
- output: Output blocks are automatically rendered. The root is defined as an
  output block.
- template: specifies what is rendered in the block. We can define what exactly
  is rendered. This is why we have certain blocks as defined.

```xml
<layout version="0.1.0">
    <!--
    Default layout, loads most of the pages
    -->

    <default translate="label" module="page">
        <label>All Pages</label>
        <block type="page/html" name="root" output="toHtml" template="page/3columns.phtml">
```

If we look at the plain html, we see that we call the corresponding block
layout. Notice we call `$this`. This will refer to whatever corresponding type we
are developing with:

```php
# Template for Mage_Page_Block_Html
```

By calling get child html method, we can see that we can get all the children
blocks. We see that when we call root block, we grab all the child elements. We
can include and render the header and root of blocks. Header blocks could be a
parent to other blocks. It's children can then be parents of others. Getting the
child elements grabs the corresponding block and then use the templates. As we
can see from the example below:

```php
<head>
<?php echo $this->getChildHtml('head') ?>
</head>
<body<?php echo $this->getBodyClass()?' class="'.$this->getBodyClass().'"':'' ?>>
<?php echo $this->getChildHtml('after_body_start') ?>
<div class="wrapper">
    <?php echo $this->getChildHtml('global_notices') ?>
    <div class="page">
        <?php echo $this->getChildHtml('header') ?>
        <div class="main-container col3-layout">
            <div class="main">
                <?php echo $this->getChildHtml('breadcrumbs') ?>
```
How does the system know what to use for header block? How would the block
below be displayed? If we look at header, we can see that the type is loaded as
the Page HTML header.

```xml
<block type="page/html_header" name="header" as="header">
```
```php
class Mage_Page_Block_Html_Header extends Mage_Core_Block_Template
{
    public function _construct()
    {
        $this->setTemplate('page/html/header.phtml');
    }
```

We can see that the relative path is set to the related path and thus use the
header.phtml. If no template is set, we can use the default. Setting this allows
us to now load the header:




As we can see, the get child html methods renders itself to get the top links
and main navigation. In order to render header blocks, we call these blocks and
other blocks calling other blocks. Until the whole page is rendered.

```php
<div class="header-language-background">
    <div class="header-language-container">
        <div class="store-language-container">
            <?php echo $this->getChildHtml('store_language') ?>
        </div>

        <?php echo $this->getChildHtml('currency_switcher') ?>
```

The majority of blocks are of type or core type blocks. You don't always have to
extend core concepts. Some belong to core and blocks that don't call get child
html at all. These are automatically  rendered.

```xml
    <rss_index_index translate="label">
        <label>RSS Feeds List</label>
        <reference name="root">
            <action method="setTemplate"><template>page/2columns-right.phtml</template></action>
        </reference>
```
Notice that when we look at an RSS feed, we are referencing that name place. In
this RSS example, we are referencing the name attribute of root. This can then
reerence a block type or some other example that corresponding template. The
reference tag is already referencing an already defined block.

Always be aware that page.xml is rendered first. This page loads header, body,
and footer. A default layout handle is handled by each request.

What if we only want to dislay on one page. By putting a reference block in
`tutsplus_demo_index_sayHello` handle.

Notice that we define a block in the page.xml that loads actions for loading
different files by methods. If we go to the `Mage_Page_Block_Html/head.php` we
can see what actions we have available for us to take advantage of.
