15: Putting it All Together
===========================
We display all configurable products on the page for display. What do we need?
We can use the demo module. We will need a block that will return a list of
products. Blocks are responsible for getting data from the model. Then we will
need a template file that will get the data from the block. To assign the data
to the block, we will assign this with a layout. We tie all this together in
page.xml

First off, let's go ahead and define a block. This block will be primarily
concerned with defining how we interact with our model. Remember, that is what a
block is dedicated to: interacting with models. We have a method for grabbing a
configurable product. Our model will grab a collection of products from catalog.
We define that we want to get a collection. Next, we add a method call to add an
attribute. We defined that we want to selecct name, price, and URL key from EAV.
Finally, we add a filter for a `type_id` to equal a configurable string.

Remember to extend the Mage Core Block Template so we can overwrite and add more
methods to be available within our blocks.

```php
# TutsPlus/Demo/Block/Configurable.php
<?php

class TutsPlus_Demo_Block_Configurable extends Mage_Core_Block_Template
{
	public function getConfigurableProducts()
	{
		$products = Mage::getModel('catalog/product')
			->getCollection()
			->addAttributeToSelect(['name', 'price', 'url_key'])
			->addAttributeToFilter('type_id', ['eq' => 'configurable']);
		return $products;
	}
}
```

Next, let us then define a template. Remember, we need to define the actual
plain html to be displayed. In this case, we define a a template under
`tutsplus/template/tutsplus/configurable.phtml`.

We make a request to our blocks defined get configurable products method. This
method will then allow us to increment through and display our products. Notice
that dispay the product's name and link directly to its individual page. We use
a helper method to round our pricing directly to two decimal places.

```php
<?php $products = $this->getConfigurableProducts(); ?>

<h3>Products</h3>

<?php if ($products->count() > 0): ?>
	<ul>
		<?php foreach ($products as $product): ?>
			<li>
				<a href="<?= $product->getProductUrl(); ?>"><?= $product->getName(); ?></a>
				<span><?= $helper->beautifyPrice($product->getPrice()); ?></span>
			</li>
		<?php endforeach; ?>
	</ul>
<?php else: ?>
	<p>No products are available!</p>
<?php endif; ?>
```


We take advantage of a helper function within our Demo's Helper folder. We add
it to the default data folder.

```php
<?php

// make sure you extend when creating a helper
class TutsPlus_Demo_Helper_Data extends Mage_Core_Helper_Abstract
{
	public function sayHi()
	{
		echo "Hello, Chap!";
	}

	public function beautifyPrice($price)
	{
			if (!isse($price))
				return 'unknown price';
			return number_format($price, 2, '.', ',');
	}
}
```

Now how does our application know what configurable block to use? Or how does
it know what phtml file to implement? Fear not, this is where our layout file
goes. This is where we define our layout which will refrence the content block
and insert that block of configurable xml and phtml data:

```php
<layout>
	<tutsplus_demo_index_sayHello>
		<reference name="content">
			<block type="demo/configurable" name="demo" template="tutsplus/configurable.phtml" /> 
		</reference>
	</tutsplus_demo_index_sayHello>
</layout>
```

Now we need to update our layout structure. To do tis, we add a layout attribute
within our `Demo/etc/config.xml` structure.

```php
		<layout>
			<updates>
				<demo>
					<file>tutsplus.xml</file>
				</demo>
			</updates>
		</layout>
```
