Chapter 1
============

03: Writing out first Module
-------------------------------------------------------
Magento offers an easy way to install modules. We take advantage of the folder
structure that magento offers us in order to correctly define our namespaces. In
this example, we looked at out code folder which has three folders: community,
core, and local. Generally, you don't touch anything out of core. Instead you
mainly use local for key features. We then add a module extension to our `etc/`.
Within our modules we add an XML file that defines a module, which is active,
and will be pooled from the local folder structure. We use the name of our
Module and feature as tags for this module:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<config>
	<modules>
		<TutsPlus_Demo>
			<active>true</active>
			<codePool>local</codePool>
		</TutsPlus_Demo>
	</modules>
</config>
```

Next we add our module's folder structure within our local folder. We use
namespace to our advantage. As such, we follow our folder structue as:
- local
  - TutsPlus
    - Demo

When we create a model from within our our `Demo/Model` directory, we create a
Product model. Notice that we arrange the class of our model in a way that is
similar to `TutsPlus/Demo/Model/Product`. We must follow this structure:

```php
<?php

class TutsPlus_Demo_Model_Product 
{
	public function sayHello() 
	{
		echo "Hi!";
	}
}
```
Now before intergrate this fully within our Magento project, we can test its
functionality by including a tester file in which we will instantiate the model
and call one of its property methods.

First, we require once the Mage application. By calling `Mage::app()`. We can
start our magento application. We then instantiate the new model by calling
Mage's Customer module, specifically, a Session Module. Bit this is not the most
effecient way to do this. Instead, a better way is to get the model from mage
which will use a factory method to create and lazy load our object. We can
demosntrate that this is the same class as before when we echo the `get_class`
method.

Our commented out example uses the Tutsplus namespace to then call an instance
method of the product model we created.

```php
<?php

require_once 'app/Mage.php';

# init for app
Mage::app();

// $product = new TutsPlus_Demo_Model_Product;
// $product->sayHello();


# Mage/Customer/Model/Session.php
$customer = new Mage_Customer_Model_Session;
# autoloader
$customer2 = Mage::getModel('customer/session');
echo get_class($customer2);
```
