05: Understanding a Factory Patterin in Magento
-----------------------------------------------

To understand how Magento autloads files, we must undersand how it interacts
with our config file in using namespaces to instantiate and serve an object we
need in magento. Whenever we create a new Magento module, we must create a
`config.xml` file within our Demo namespace. If we look at the config file of
our Catalog module in core. You'll notice that we can have a global tag within
XML that represents models. A model of catalog. And that catalog has the class
namespace of `Mage_Catalog_Model`:

```xml
    <global>
        <models>
            <catalog>
                <class>Mage_Catalog_Model</class>
                <resourceModel>catalog_resource</resourceModel>
            </catalog>
```

We will apply this same concept to our own module under out
`TutsPlus/Demo/etc/config.xml` file:

```xml
<config>
	<global>
		<models>
			<demo>
				<class>TutsPlus_Demo_Model</class>
			</demo>
		</models>
		<blocks>
			<demo>
				<class>TutsPlus_Demo_Block</class>
			</demo>
		</blocks>

		<helpers>
			<demo>
				<class>TutsPlus_Demo_Helper</class>
			</demo>
		</helpers>
	</global>
</config>
```

From within our models tag, we list it as a demo module to which we define a
class for that demo model. The same applies if we where to apply a block or even
a helper method.

Now that we have correctly defined our model under config, we can now grab that
model. By using our previous calling of getting amodel, that is under the tag of
demo, and specifically, that product:

```php
$product = Mage::getModel("demo/product");
$product->sayHello();
```

Those are models, what about helpers? We can add in our helper methods by our
defined config file. We can then specify what we need by including our file
structure the same way we present it inside the helper folder:
```php
<?php

class TutsPlus_Demo_Helper_Customer extends Mage_Core_Helper_Abstract
{
	public function sayHi()
	{
		echo "Hello, Chap!";
	}
}
```

Notice that we use the same namespace as above. Remember to extend the Merge
Core's Helper Abstract class so we can then implement any features within our
extension of helpers. We provide the same helper function for our use.

A special feature of helper methods includes defining a `Data.php` file that
will be the defacto place for helper methods that are called without a proper
namespaced file:

```php
<?php

// make sure you extend when creating a helper
class TutsPlus_Demo_Helper_Data extends Mage_Core_Helper_Abstract
{
	public function sayHi()
	{
		echo "Hello, Chap!";
	}
}
``` 
With helper methods, we just call helper and the proper proper instance.

```php
$helper = Mage::helper("demo");
$helper->sayHi();
```
