09: Doing CRUD Operations
=========================

Read
------
To create data, we can interact with a current product that we load from a
model. Remember, our model entity allows us to load from our database. It uses a
Catalog/Product Model to then load a product with an identifier of 231

If we dump the model, we will see that it contains a few meta data options.

```php
$product = Mage::getModel('catalog/product')->load(231);
```

To grab an attribute, such as name, we can use the get data attribute or we an
take advantage of the magic `_set` method that is within our
`lib/Varien/Object.php`. This will allow us to magically call any entities from
our model that are associated with data. That is, instead of:

```php
echo $product->getData('name');
```
We can allow magic methods to call an entities product directly and more
smoothly

```php
echo $product->getName();
```

Update
------
To update our data, we can use magic methods to grab a product and set a value.
Be sure, however, to save that instance!

```php
$product->setName('updated')->save();
echo $product->getName();
```

Delete
------
To delete a product, we first find that product through our model. We then call
the delete method on it. As easy as that, we have deleted our entity. However,
please note that within our `Mage::app('admin')` we are using admin as
parameter. Makes sense, since you don't want to make direct changes to the
database unless you have proper permissions.

```php
$product->delete();
```

To create entities requires us to add new addittions to a new product. We will
cover this later.

Collections
-----------
Collections are an array of objects. An array that contains multiple objects of
the same entity type. We can get a collection of products and go through each
individually interacting with their properites. In this example, We get the
model of product from catalog. We grab the collection and add an attribute to
select. We determine that we want name and price to be attributes that we like
to select. Going back to EAV, we only have access to minimal properties of a
product. That is why we have to specify the necessary attributes to select or
joins we have to make. We also add a filter which will look at the price and
select all products less than 50. We then loop through.

```php
$products = Mage::getModel('catalog/product')->getCollection()
	->addAttributeToSelect(['name', 'price'])
	->addFieldToFilter('price', ['lt' => 50]);

foreach ($products as $product) {
	echo $product->getId() . ": " . $product->getName() .  "<br />";
}
```
