06: Class Rewriting in Magento
=============================

You have two options when rewriting classes within a Magento project. Copy over
all your files onto the local and overwrite their features. This includes
following the namespacing in your folder strucure exactley like core. This also
means having to copy over all the module you would like to use in your local.
Hence repeating yourself. However, Magento only loads one option as indicated
within our `Mage.php` file. The biggest problem, however, is tha Magento may
release a game changer in our code. Something that may be changed and later on
we have to go back and copy over all the new features. In a sense we are left
with a file that is too coupled within Magento 1.9, not any other future
versions.

We can fix this, by creating a rewrite module that will extend the original
Catalog from core and just overwrite the needed methods. To do this, we first
create our folder structure within TutsPlus. We add the appropriate folders
including `Catalog/etc` and `Catalog/Model`.

Within our `etc/config.xml` file:

```php
<config>
	<global>
		<models>
			<catalog>
				<rewrite>
					<category>TutsPlus_Catalog_Model_Category</category>
				</rewrite>
			</catalog>
		</models>
	</global>
</config>
```

Notice that we mention that we want to use a global model, specifically the
catalog, and then provdide a rewrite that will use
`TutsPlus_Catalog_Model_Category`.

Our second file, the actual category, will extend the original model. We are
simply extending the model so we can then overwrite its features. This will
return an array, not an imploded string.

```php
<?php

class TutsPlus_Catalog_Model_Category extends Mage_Catalog_Model_Category
{
    /**
     * Retrieve children ids comma separated
     *
     * @return string
     */
    public function getChildren()
    {
        return $this->getResource()->getChildren($this, false);
    }
}
```

Finally, we need to register the module under our `app/etc/modules` file. We
create the file to be named under our local code using the catalog module: We
activate it and make it available to be pooled in autoload.

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<config>
	<modules>
		<TutsPlus_Catalog>
			<active>true</active>
			<codePool>local</codePool>
		</TutsPlus_Catalog>
	</modules>
</config>
```
