07: Events and Observer Pattern in Magento
==========================================

Another option to re-writing a feature within our modules, is to add a listener
event. In other words, if there is any moment where a user action or some sort
of request happens that then must fire other events, we can use the events and
observer pattern to listen for such events and react to them. Specifically, we
could just extend the feature onto our local modules and then add the proper
edits, but again, this isn't looking to the future of how Magento may changed.
Instead, we can alter our application so it listens for an event and then reacts
to it. The observer is separated from the Session Model and thus we don't have
to worry directly about it.

To begin, we will listen in on a method that will set customer as logged in.
When a customer is logged in, we want to log that event within our `var/`
folder. Notice that we have dispatched an event. This event will be concerned
with customer login. We send the customer object to our listener:

```php
// Mage/Customer/Model/Session.php
public function setCustomerAsLoggedIn($customer)
{
	$this->setCustomer($customer);
	$this->renewSession();
	Mage::dispatchEvent('customer_login', array('customer'=>$customer));
	return $this;
}
```

To add a listener we first add an event tag to our `config.xml`. We then add in
an observer, this observer will be under demo type. We then add the fact that
our type is a model which uses the class demo/observer. Finally, we specify the
exacy method for logging a customer. Notice that our events tag houses the
actual dispatched event of customer login. This tells magento that we will
listen in for the customer login and use this firing event:

```xml
<config>
	<global>
		<models>
			<demo>
				<class>TutsPlus_Demo_Model</class>
			</demo>
		</models>
		<blocks>
			<demo>
				<class>TutsPlus_Demo_Block</class>
			</demo>
		</blocks>

		<helpers>
			<demo>
				<class>TutsPlus_Demo_Helper</class>
			</demo>
		</helpers>
		<events>
			<customer_login>
				<observers>
					<demo>
						<type>model</type>
						<class>demo/observer</class>
						<method>logCustomer</method>
					</demo>
				</observers>
			</customer_login>
		</events>
	</global>
</config>
```
Within our `TutsPlus/Demo/Model/Product.php`, we will grab that customer info
through the observer parameter. Next we get the customer and log their info by
name within the `var/log` folder:

```php
<?php

class TutsPlus_Demo_Model_Observer
{
	public function logCustomer($observer)
	{
		$customer = $observer->getCustomer();
		Mage::log($customer->getName() . " has logged in!", null , "customer.log");
	}
}
```
Rule of thumb: write events and observer if you are dealing with code that
needs to run on the basis of an event behind-the-scenes: email login. Other
wise, you can rewrite the feature as the before lesson. Take advantage of
this feature when you can.
