08: Understanding Model Entities and Resource Models
====================================================

Believe it or not, but the database design has over three hundred tables. In
general models are used to talk to the database, and then operate this under
objects, and then use it as collections

- Entity models result in our business logic. They don't result in connecting to
  the database. It uses an adapter. Thus seperating the entity and allow for
  extensions.

Types of Models

- Simple: core config, URL Rewrite
- Complex: CMS Page, Sales Quotes, Sales Orders
- EAV: Products, Categories, and Customers

EAV stands for Entity or something being modeled. Entities have Attributes, they
act like regular propertes of an object. Each property has a value. By using
EAV, we don't have to have a database with empty values. Instead, each table
represents data that is present and available.

But how do we interact with EAV through our resource models? A new update to
magento allows us to use resources. Resources that are abstracted away in order
for us to add new adapters if need be. That is, we are not stuck using just
MySQL. We can use other options as long as we extend the abstract class.

If we take the example of our `cms` folder. We will notice a few things. First
off, notice that within our `Model` folder, we have two models available for us
to use. The first is a Block and the other is a Page. Both do not have the
direct business logic of interacting with our database. This is the
responsibiliy of our Resource. The `Resource` folder deals with our business
logic or direct interaction with our DB. We can extend these features into other
applicable adapter called MySQL. This adapter allows us to extend or provide an
actual implementation. But this method was deprecated as of 1.6. You should be
using EAV along with Resources for proper entities.
