10: Creating our First Controller
=================================
Routes and Controllers are handled in a very particular fashion. Relating to the
URI and Actions respectively. We can define a route within our traits namspaced
`etc/config.xml` file. We determine that we like to use a custom route that will
be used under our custom tag: by convention, we use our trait and namespace. We
then explain we like to use the standard route provided with two arguments. One
defines where our controller will be used in respect to a module. And the other
is a frontname for our URI request:

```xml
<config>
	<global>
		<models>
			<demo>
				<class>TutsPlus_Demo_Model</class>
			</demo>
		</models>
		<blocks>
			<demo>
				<class>TutsPlus_Demo_Block</class>
			</demo>
		</blocks>

		<helpers>
			<demo>
				<class>TutsPlus_Demo_Helper</class>
			</demo>
		</helpers>
		<events>
			<customer_login>
				<observers>
					<demo>
						<type>model</type>
						<class>demo/observer</class>
						<method>logCustomer</method>
					</demo>
				</observers>
			</customer_login>
		</events>
	</global>
	<frontend>
		<routers>
			<TutsPlus_demo>
				<use>standard</use>
				<args>
					<module>TutsPlus_Demo</module>
					<frontName>demo</frontName>
				</args>
			</TutsPlus_demo>
		</routers>
	 </frontend>
</config>
```

Once you defined your proper route, we can create a controller. Remember to name
your controller as your request: ` http://magento.dev/demo/index/sayHello`. We
can do so by creating a controller of IndexController within our controller file
under our controllers folder within Demo. Notice our namespacing. We don't have
to define our controller seperately as namespace. Magento knows. We also extend
Magento's Core Controller Front Action object.

Within our controller, we define the URI request and then the action. We can
define a plain index for our demo/index page. This is the default index action.
we can also define an action that reports hello.

```php
<?php

class TutsPlus_Demo_IndexController extends Mage_Core_Controller_Front_Action
{
	public function sayHelloAction() {
		/* var_dump($this->getRequest()->getParams()); */
		var_dump($this->getRequest()->getParam('id'));
	}

	public function indexAction() {
		echo "default action!";
	}
}
```
Notice we can define a single parameter or multiple parameters. Multiple values
are returned via an array.

What about POST values? Easy! We get the request, and specify we want to get the
post. On our customer login, notice we check to see if their exists a POST. If
so, we then get that post. Take a look in
`Mage/Customer/controllers/AccountController.php`.

But how do we serve views? Magento handles this in a different way. We will look
at this in the next section.
